from, what kind of attitudes, income, urban,
rural? What I remember as
being kind of interesting is how few people from
Houston were at A&M, for sure from my high school.
There was only one other, I mean, my high school,
you know, I had five or six hundred People
graduated from Lamar in 63, and only one other went
to A&M other than the two twins that played
footballs with us, four of us. The two football
players, and then myself and one other. And I
always... you know, I kind of thought that was an
interesting thing. The Aggies, you know, I'd
never heard of Muleshoe and, you know, Gosney was
from Muleshoe and, you know, and Cut and Shoot and
all these little places, you know, that I'd either
heard about or not heard about. If I'd heard about
them, they took life. And I felt at the time, A&M,
maybe because I was in ag-eco, veterinary
medicine and ag-eco, so I was in the agriculture
business and not in the engineering business and
the nuclear business and some of the other
programs. But I felt that A&M was an agriculture, a
rural-based school. There were some people from
Fort Worth and some from San Antonio, but really
they were from the small towns across Texas. And,
you know, just were, you know, were just good, good
solid people. You know, I mean, I just always
thought. Was there any ethnic diversity in your
outfit? If there were, I do not remember anything.
even Hispanic in any of my outfits. And there was
definitely no black. Jewish? Well, not that I knew
of. I really didn't get to know Jewish people until
I got into the Army. And there weren't many in the
Army, but that's where I remember meeting my first
Jewish. I mean, I was in the Army when I ate my first
pizza. Because if you ate pizza in Texas, you were
in a beer hall. Because pizza and beer went
together. I was a non-alcoholic, so I didn't go to
those places. And I remember I was at Fort Benning,
Georgia, second lieutenant, when I ate my first
pizza. So I probably led a fairly... protected
life, you know, growing up and all that. But now
there were some Catholic and Protestant. Yes, but
because half of my family is Catholic and half is
Methodist, and I went to catechism growing up,
that, there's no, I never, Matter of fact, I always
thought it was interesting the debate over
Kennedy being a Catholic on whether he should be
president of the United States. I couldn't
imagine that debate. I couldn't, I mean, all my
cousins, half of my cousins, I'm one of 42 first
cousins, half of them are Catholic, half of them
are Methodist. The two churches in our little town
in Louisiana were next door to one another. I mean,
you know, Some of those debates don't make any
sense to me. They didn't then, and they certainly
don't now. And as far as you were aware, the NM
student body accepted people as individuals.
Yeah, and I mentioned early on the international
students. There were... minority international
students. Most of them were Arab or Pakistani, so
they weren't necessarily black. But there was,
especially in the College of Agriculture, there
was a lot of international students. And I was
impressed that A&M was taking these people. I
thought that was a good deal. And I went out of my way
to befriend you know, a lot of them and try to help
them. I mean, I wasn't in any clubs with them or any
organizations, but in classes, if I saw one of them
struggling or something and it was a class that I
was doing well in, I would try to help them. What did
you and your buddies think were the most
prestigious student positions? Oh, well, there
was no doubt. I mean, you know, the Corps Commander
was it. I knew the wing commanders and the brigade
commanders were important positions. I felt the
funnest positions, and I feel this today, were the
company commander positions because that's
where you're really getting, you know, there's no
staffs down there. You're just kind of
interacting, and in the Army, you know, I
commanded every position from platoon leader
through Army three-star, and the most fun
positions Position was when other my two company
commands. I mean, that's where you're really You
know, you know, everybody's first name
Everything about them was there even a student
body president then? If there was I don't know I
don't recall that I mean if you were the Corps
commander you were the leader and being president
senior class and had some prestige. But it was
usually a core guy. All right, what about your
leaders? What did you all think of your leaders?
Well, it was interesting. I saw that on your
question. And Ted Hopgood, I'm having dinner
tonight with Ted Hopgood, who I've always
admired. And he was two years ahead of me, and Ted
was a squared-away guy. But I always thought that
tradition went a little far when they wore
short-sleeved shirts on some of those
unbelievably cold, wet, bitter, icy football
games. Because I was sitting there with all the
clothes I owned on and freezing to death, and there
they were in their whites with their sleeves up.
And I said, you know, I don't think that's good
judgment. And so I remember saying, these guys,
obviously, you know, there's a tradition here But
there has to be some common sense to this business.
But I always felt that they were, again, the Yells
were very disciplined. It's not nandy-pandy. I
mean, it's very professional, very predictable.
And I,
even before I appreciated regimentation, liked
all that, so I always thought the Yell Ears. I
didn't want to be one. That was not my personality
to be out there in front of folks leading cheers,
leading yells, but I remember admiring and
respecting those guys. What did you all think
about the band? Well, it's really interesting,
and I've told this to Jeannie several times. The
band, when you're a cadet, they're BQs. And you
throw, you have deal fights, and you persecute
them. And the minute you graduate, they're the
greatest thing about the symbol. They are the
symbol of Texas A&M when you may, you know, the
score of the game may be 40 to nothing, but you won
the halftime. Nobody can compete with the band.
And so I haven't quite figured that out, how you
could, you know, persecute them so much when
you're here and admire and respect them so much the
day you leave. I mean, it's the darndest thing. But
no, that was the truth. And I was a musician. I mean,
I love music, and I wouldn't have been in the band if
my life depended upon it. But today, if a guy is
halfway musically inclined and wants to come to
A&M, I tell him, hey, get in the band. Did you
know... That secret fraternities existed? No.
You mean Greek fraternities? No, no, no. No, I
wasn't on the inner circles of anything. No, I
didn't know any secrets. The TTs and the stickers.
No, sir. The stickers go back at least to Mr. Evans'
day. Wow. Their symbol was the swastika. Wow.
Which is far before the Nazis knew about it. And the
TTs were the true Texans, and apparently they
still exist, and apparently they each have one
goal, to get their members in the key positions of
leadership on the campus. Yeah, see,
I was not a joiner. Excuse me a minute, let me
just... Let's see...
Traveled to and from College Station. You went by
car, but you also hitchhiked. Yes. Describe some
hitchhiking experiences. Well, when I went to
Baylor, gas was 19 cents a gallon, but 19 cents was a
lot of money. And what was interesting, because
it's in my journals, when I was at A&M, I was buying
stock. I was buying Halliburton, several stocks,
as I indicated. And so I was a frugal guy. What my
mother says, she would send me $50 and I'd put $25 in
savings. As a matter of fact, I was one of Dennis
Gehring's, you know, one of his at the Bank of A&M.
That was my first account. And I was a frugal guy.
And so 19 cents a gallon was a lot of money in my Jeep.
did not get very good gas mileage. It was
four-wheel drive, had a winch, front and rear,
power takeoff winch. So it was heavy. It got eight
or nine miles to the gallon. And so when I would go up
to Baylor to see Chuck Rosenthal, my best friend, I
would hitchhike because it was so easy. And I would
just usually get a ride. Billy Provine would give
me a ride out to Highway 6, you know, right in front
of the administration building with the big oak
trees, and I would just, and I'd have that guitar,
and I still have the case, and I'd stand there, and I
was not in uniform, but I swear the first car that
would go by would stop, and, you know, and they'd
say, how far are you going? And I'd say, Waco. Well,
that was a look that Sometimes it'd take four or
five cars to get somebody that was going to Waco,
because you had to change a couple times to get to
Waco. But I would get there fast, and I had my
harmonica in the case and the guitar, and I would
just play the whole way there. Never
any negative experiences? No, never. I don't
recall anything. I recall hitchhiking a lot, and I
never recall having a bad experience. And you
didn't go by bus or train? No, I didn't. Again,
because the farm was so close and I had that Jeep, I
didn't go back to Houston very much because I would
meet my family on the weekends. you know, at the
farm. And you had a steady girlfriend, so you
didn't have blind dates with Tessies. No, and I
didn't, you know, and I didn't travel to Austin,
you know, I didn't, Jeannie and I were high school
sweethearts, and so, and the folks would bring her
up to the farm, and you know, she would come, she had
that friend in Navasota, and And so, you know, I
didn't do much. When she was here and other girls
were here, how were they treated? How were the
young women treated then, the dates? Well,
everybody behaved themselves. You know, there
was, you know, and I guess we could ask Cheney, but
I. Were the big dances still going then? Cotton
ball, boop dance, ring dance. Well, the ring dance
was because I went to the ring dance, but I don't
remember the cotton ball. Jeannie loves to dance,
and I'm not very good at that. And I just... Kind of
like wearing sunglasses. You know, I know I'm
going to get car racks because real men didn't wear
sunglasses and real men didn't dance. And I just
wasn't a dancer. So I didn't do things like that.
You know, I wish I did. Matter of fact, I... I have a
lot of little aches and pains now, and they're all
from Texas football, every one of them. They're
not from the Army. They're not from combat.
They're from getting broke up playing Texas
football when you're too small and wanting to do
good. And I remember distinctly when I was 13,
I was late to football practice, and I was never,
ever late. And the coach said, House, why are you
late? And I said, well, because the piano teacher
kept me late. And all my buddies ridiculed me, and
the next day I quit piano. And I tell folks I wish I'd
have quit football, because I would be feeling a
lot better now, and I would know I would still be
playing the piano. What did you and your buddies
know about drugs?
I don't think anything. Did you even know the
words? No. Beer, matter of fact, I don't know
anybody that drank hard liquor. Aggies drank
beer. They may have drank too much for me, but
that's as much as Aggies did. I didn't know any
Aggies that drank wine. I didn't know any Aggies
that drank bourbon or scotch. They just drank a lot
of beer, and I guarantee you, I didn't know anybody
that took any kind of illicit drugs. And the
athletes didn't do anything for bigger muscles.
There was none of that. And people smoked
cigarettes. Yes, but you know, it was
interesting.
None of my friends smoked. I don't have... I don't
have one recollection of a friend smoking.
Because I remember coming into the Army, and I was
appalled that everybody smoked. I mean, all the
leaders, everybody. And I never had smoked. But I
didn't have that same sensation at A&M. So I don't.
I don't remember. There was no ashtrays in my room
or anything. As far as you recall, did you even know
the word heroin? I don't think so. Unfortunately,
though, post-Vietnam in Germany, I became an
expert. I put 26 soldiers in the Federal Pen for
heroin abuse from one rifle company in
Baumholder, Germany. Wow. The
notable people here on the campus, Mr. Rutter and
so forth, did you know Old Army Lou? No, but I knew
who he was, and I knew, I mean, I knew, and Pinky.
Well, of course, we all knew Pinky, and we would all
cheer, but I never... See, again, to know those
people, you had to be somebody, and I wasn't in any
of those leadership positions, so you just didn't
know them. You knew who they were, and Pinky was
kind of what A&M was all about. He was always
around. All right, and that leads to a great A&M
tradition, silver taps. Do you remember by
chance... going to Silver Taps early in your...
Yes. There's two memories I have of Silver Taps.
You know, I remember going to a couple and I didn't
know the people, the person. We didn't have too
many. I mean, we did not have very many Aggies that
died. But I remember the first time one of my
friends was killed in a car wreck and going... And I
remember that one. But what I remember about
Silver Taps was the fact that it took precedence
over everything else. And when it was over, you
walked back without talking, and there was no
talking, and nobody that I ever knew violated
that. It was something above... everything else.
And my
oldest nephew, the number one grandson, and the
nephew and the nieces, the one that was most like
me, died here in a car wreck as a junior at A&M. And my
brother was from Tulane, and I was a lieutenant
colonel at Fort Polk, Louisiana. And my brother
called me, and I immediately went on leave and
helped. It was an unbelievable tragedy. But we,
you know, there was going to be a silver taps for
Curtis. Curtis, Glenn Curtis House III. And, hi,
Ms. Chandler. But, so I, you know, I... I came from
Fort Polk, Louisiana, picked up my brother in
Houston, went to Austin, and we identified
Curtis, and I did all that, and my brother was just
in shock. And then the silver taps was coming up,
and he didn't know anything about silver taps, and
I said, Glenn, trust me. I mean, we've had a
funeral. We've had all these things, and you're
not an Aggie. but you'll never forget it, and it
will help you. And so I came back. That was the first
time I'd come back to A&M for years and years and
years. And I was flying a little Cessna then. I had a
little Cessna 182. So I flew over, and I met Glenn,
and we had dinner, matter of fact, at Dennis
Gehring's. Dennis had a big... Wanda, Dennis, and
Kay had a beautiful dinner for the house family
because we came from all over. And we went to Silver
Taps, and I was so proud of the Aggies. Because I
told Glenn, I said, you know, Glenn, this was a
tradition when we were small. And it's so big now. I
don't know if these kind of traditions really
hold, but I guarantee you it'll be nice. Well, the
Ross volunteers were perfect. All the student
body was perfect. And when we left, and I had
briefed his wife, who's a talker, and everybody
else, when it's over, we don't talk. I said, now,
when we get back to the hotel rooms, I mean, you
know, we can go ahead and talk. But I said, there's
no talking. Well, nobody else, there was no
students that talked. I was so proud of the Aggies,
I couldn't see straight. And my brother to this
day, I mean... He may be the only non-Aggie to
someday send money to A&M. I mean, you know, he
really, he's had two children. He's had, his
daughter's graduated from here, and then Curtis,
of course, and then his other two sons graduated
from Texas, but he loves Aggies. And so, silver
taps. I mean, as important as Aggie mustard is, and
boy, I've mustered in some strange places in the
last 30 years, and I really, from Corregidor, I
really think it's a great tradition, and maybe the
greatest tradition because of my personal
situation. The silver taps is probably the
tradition that, to me, must continue. All right,
Mustard. Did you go to Mustard when you were a
student? Oh, every time. Matter of fact, I...
Where was it held? G. Raleigh White. Every time.
What did you think it symbolized? Well, we were...
to the credit of the Corps, we were briefed on all of
it. We knew what it all was and the history of it.
Matter of fact, my focus is Civil War history. My
next focus is World War II European. But I know a lot
about Corregidor. In my last three and a half
years, I was in the Pacific. But my...
My interest in the Philippines all started in 63
when they were preparing us for, you know,
somebody in the company was given the mission, one
of the upperclassmen, to prepare us for what
muster was all about. And I guess I've spoken at a
dozen musters in the last 30 years. And I've
mustered in Vietnam. I've mustered in Saudi
Arabia. I've mustered in Korea.
You know, sometimes with two or three Aggies, and
sometimes with two or three hundred. But it's
quite a tradition. And the musters where you had a
friend die the year before, and you answer here,
you know that man. You knew that man. There's like
five musters where that happened. And sometimes,
unfortunately, the first time you know he died is
when you get the muster packet, and I've been
muster chairman a whole bunch, and so you go to the
muster, and you're reading through, and you look
at your group, and you see... you know, one of your
buddies that died, and then as soon as Muster's
over, you get back and you start trying to figure
out where it happened, how everybody is, the
family and whatever. So, no, it's, you know,
there's some traditions there that other places
will dream about. Of the interviewees that I've
talked to so far who were here before the war, World
War II, almost none of them remember Muster. Oh,
okay. Well, it, yeah. It was a World War II. It was a,
Crickador is what, now, I don't. It existed. It
existed, but that propelled it. Yes, yes. You
know, and, you know, the sun never sets on an Aggie
muster on the 21st of April. That's right. I mean,
you know. I've done, I think I've done 26 now. Yeah.
Senior ring, when did you buy it, how much did it
cost, where'd you get the money? Well, I think it's
all here.
Let me see if I'm, is it 66 or 67? Probably 67, yeah,
it'd be 67. I just, I was looking through my journal
and I found it. God, I hope I can find it again. I
thought I marked it. Let me see, maybe.
I just... It had to be 67, and it was...
And I thought I even stuck the pages, because I paid
for my Aggie boots, the final payment for my Aggie
boots, but it was in... It was in the spring. Oh, no,
it'd be, yeah, 66 then. Yeah, okay. I graduated
technically in January 20th of 68, and I'll read
that to you. That's kind of an interesting
write-up. But on the 19th of April, Tuesday, 1966,
it was clear in College Station that And they began
early. It's been a typical busy one. Withdrew $25
from savings account and paid the balance on my
senior boots and ordered my senior ring for $34. It
should get to me about July 5th or so. And so here is
the senior ring receipt, 3376. And you had saved
the money yourself. Right. And then I had been
paying off. I have holic boots, and there they are
right there. And I still ride. What's amazing
about my holic boots is I still have my pinks riding
pants. And when I do, late in life, I became a
hunter-jumper. And those are my colors. And
that's the boots you ride when you're doing fox
hunting. But
you would ride those on Saturdays or Sundays. But
sometimes we would fox hunt on Wednesday
afternoons. And I would wear my Aggie pinks. And my
boots, those Aggie boots, and then I didn't, for
some reason I must have had to turn in my midnight
shirt, but I found another very deep green shirt.
And so those boots, I continue to wear them, but I
have used Propritz polish since the day I got them,
and they have no cracks whatsoever. And I saddle
soap them and keep them in good shape. How did you
feel when you first put that ring on or put those
boots on? Well, I remember, I think I remember more
about the boots than the ring. The ring, what I
just, what was interesting about calf roping is I
was, I had a ring once on my right hand and I came off
the left side of the horse and Because sometimes
you'd come off the left, sometimes off the right,
depending on the calf. And the ring caught on the
pommel, and I almost tore the finger off. So I made a
rule that any time I was working, I didn't have any
rings on. No rings, no watches. I wore a watch and my
button here. So around heavy equipment, from the
time I was about... 16, 15 or 16, I never wore rings.
So when you look at my ring, my Aggie ring, it still
looks brand new. Because I only wear it to church
and to occasions, I don't wear it when I'm working.
So I never wore it with my military, my BDU uniform.
I would wear it when I had a staff job, but I was
fortunate that most of my career was in command
positions, and I wore combat uniforms, and I wore
no rings and no watches. And so the Aggie ring, I
just was, there was two things about the ring. I
didn't want to lose it. I'd read all the stories,
you know, going back to World War II and
everything. I didn't want anybody cutting my
finger off in Vietnam, so I didn't even take it to
Vietnam. Didn't even take the ring. I didn't take
my wedding band, you know, and so two tours in
Vietnam and just stayed at home. The Gulf War, I
didn't take it to the Gulf War. And so it was
something that I just didn't want to lose, you
know. Then you don't have any story, unique story,
about somebody having seen it at an unusual place.
No, no. It...
I just... I read that and I thought about that and I
don't, you know, because I was kind of trying to
protect the ring versus having it with me all the
time. But the boots,
I love boots. I love leather. And I always did. And I
wore my boots every single day of my senior year.
And they were always polished, and no fish ever
touched them. Now, did anybody tease you about it?
No. But after a while, they noticed. I always wore
my boots, no matter rain, sleet, or snow. And I
think I may have been the only guy that always wore
them every day. And nobody tried to hide them for
you? Well, you've got to understand, I was living
in my truck. I was in H1 by then. I was in the married
company. And I was living in the back of that pickup
truck. So, again, you know, probably of all the
people you've interviewed, you know, Eddie Joe
Davis still can't believe it. To this day, he can't
believe I lived in that truck all those years and
all those months. But, I mean, I would get those
boots on and off by myself. And the pickup, the
camper was flush with the top of the cab. So you
couldn't stand up in the camper. All right. Now,
where did you keep it parked? Behind Guyon Hall.
Behind Guyon Hall. And what I did is I was running
all these cattle. I was spending more time at the
ranch. You know, once you got to be a junior, you
didn't have to march to chow anymore. You know, if
You know, you didn't have to. Every once in a while
you had to march the troops to chow, and then that
day you were on a roster. And you had to, but you
didn't have to march to chow. You could just show
up. And so I was going to class, and as soon as class
over, I'd go to the ranch. And we had a house at the
ranch. I had those cattle. I was always doing
something. And so after a while, I said, you know,
I'm paying $450 a semester room and board, and I'm
not eating at the mess halls, and I'm not even
sleeping in my room, you know. So I went to Captain
Simmons, and I said, sir.